Okay, so
now we're going to start from our data.
We're going to do the first phase of the
thing, we're going to pull the data down.
I've changed it so we're talking to
mbox.dr-chuck.net.
That's my high-performance server
that's carefully cached, and so
we should not be able to crash that.
Let's hope I don't crash that.
We're going to run the gmane.py code and
that's going to produce content.sqlite.
And if you look at this, it's going to seem
really similar to everything else that's
doing any kind of data mining because
it's really focused on simplicity,
URL open, writing the stuff,
putting things in.
And the other thing is I have
already downloaded a real large
copy of content.sqlite and so
it's going to move to the end and
you can either start at the beginning.
I'll actually show you how it
starts in the beginning and
then show you how it starts,
does it at the end.
So, okay, so I have downloaded
pythonlearn.com/code/gmane.zip,
that's there.
And I've unzipped it.
And so if you take a look at my files,
you see that I have here
a very small content.sqlite.
Bob.sqlite, that's the downloaded one.
So for now, now I'm just going
to get rid of content.sqlite.
So I'm going to start with nothing.
And you see, I've unzipped this.
And this is 516 megabytes.
A half a gigabyte of stuff.
It was smaller when I downloaded it,
because that was a zip file.
But I'm going to run gmane.py,
python gmane.py.
And gmane has in it the URL for
what it's going to retrieve.
And it says oh, we have no messages in it,
and so let's just retrieve the first two.
And so now it's retrieving the first two.
Now, we'll do the first 30.
Or, let's do five more, and
it knows to keep on going.
So, it does this, and
there's actually code that I'll show you
in a minute, that we can comment out.
So we'll just hit enter,
and so there we go.
So, there's code if you feel
like making this go faster.
Hopefully we don't crash
the whole Internet by making
this go too much faster.
But if you change the code here,
and here's gmane.py.
And I'll show you in a sec about the code.
So we've got some things here,
and we've got some date code.
We want to be able to parse dates and
tear things apart.
And this is just a bunch of really
complex stuff that I probably got from
stack overflow to parse dates and figure
out what they are because the only thing
I'm really trying to do
is get the date right.
So I'm going to create this
database content.sqlite.
That's if it doesn't exist, let's make it.
Here's the base URL, this is where
we go to get the data from, and
we're going to create a table that has the
id, which is a sequence number within it.
It's going to be unique and we're going to have
the email itself, that when it was sent at.
That's why I'm kind of cleaning up the dates,
what the subject line is.
And each mail message has header and body.
So if I were to go and
go to one of these URLs, go here and
go to that URL in the browser.
Go to that URL in the browser,
this is going to be a mailing message.
You've been looking at this for a while.
There's the headers and there's the body.
Okay, and the blank line is the break
between headers and the body and
so I'm separating out the headers and
the body because we have to parse them.
So that sets things up but you see I
do create table if it not exists that so
that if it's already
there, it's already there.
Now it then says,
I'm going to figure out where to start, so
so I'm going to select the max of id,
that's SQL, from the Messages.
And this is just a little bit of try and
except stuff to figure out if
we've got some or
if we didn't get any rows whatsoever.
When it's all said and done,
start is zero or the next message.
Okay, so we print that out and
how many messages we want.
So this is a while loop that's going to
run and there's some gaps in the messages,
and so this skip count is
if it sees a blank message,
it goes four more times
before it totally gives up.
And then if it's got four blank messages
in a row, then it actually quits.
You could play with that if you wanted.
So if many's less than one and the first
time through, many is zero, and so
many is less than one.
It asks us for the how many.
And so then start equals start plus 1 so
that is let's go get the next message.
And that just double checks to make
sure that the message we're retrieving
select id for message where
id equals the start guy and
then we're going to fetch a row and
if the row's not none, continue.
All this means is if our starting number
encounters a message that we've already
retrieved before, skip it.
So that's not actually
talking to the network,
that's just a loop that says check them,
check them, check them, check them.
You want to write this code so
it's sort of adaptive to weirdnesses,
because we might have gaps or whatever,
and so that's what this is going to do.
And then this many equals many minus 1,
that's how many messages,
when I said give me 10 messages.
And then URL = baseurl, the baseurl
plus the start plus a slash plus the end.
That's the syntax of the message.
That's the syntax of the URL that
basically is the start and the end.
And you put the start and
the end, so 3 through 4,
we're going to retrieve
one message at a time.
Now, in all of these situations you
may find that you have some problem
with an SSL certificate
depending on the Python.
Here's a little bit of code.
You can play with it.
If you can't open anything,
you might have to play with this.
I've got it so it's talking non-SSL so
it should work for everything.
And then we open it and we read it and we
check to see the HTTP response code.
If we get something other than 200,
that's probably a bad sign and
then we're just going to quit.
So we break all the way out of
the while loop that's the outside.
We also make it so
we catch keyboard interrupt.
That's except, so we got this try/except
catch, so I can hit control-C.
It'll s interrupted by user and
then it will quit.
If we get any other exception and
we're going to print out, and
this little bit is the bit of code that
makes it so that we can see what it is
because if it can't read it we
should know what's going on.
Hope it didn't introduce any syntax
errors in my writing but that's okay.
Then we at this point if
we've made it this far,
that means that we have opened
the document and we've read the document.
And so at this point, we print the URL
that we just retrieved and the length of
the text and so that's what
you're seeing when it's running.
I print the URL and
the length of the text so
that's each line through, give me
a little feedback that we're doing it.
Then I'm going to find two line feeds.
The line feed at the end of like
the subject line and then the blank line.
This is searching for the blank line and
then I break the header and the body and so
I got the header is up to but that and
to be on that to the end is the body.
Otherwise I complain,
couldn't find the headers and the body.
Probably means that your pointing
at the wrong URL or something.
And if I've successfully,
I reset this skip count to 5
every time I successfully meet a
email message that I like.
And then I use some regular expressions to
retrieve the email message looking for
the from and with the parentheses to
extract non-blank characters, some number,
one or more non-blank characters
followed by an at sign followed by some
more non-blank characters.
And that pulls that out and remember
that findall always retrieves a list.
If we got one thing from the headers,
then we're happy.
And the email is that first thing
that we got, and we can strip it,
we convert it to lowercase, and
we throw away any less thans and
greater thans that happen to be in there.
Otherwise, we have another slightly
different regular expression.
And we see if that one works, and
if it doesn't,
then we didn't find an email address.
Then we read up on the date and we use our
parsing algorithms to figure out the date.
We're just kind of cleaning this stuff up,
and now we go get the subject line.
And we have a regular expression for
the subject line.
If we find one thing from that regular
expression, subject line in the header,
then we grab that sub zero and
we take it to lowercase and
clean all the stuff up.
And then, we've done some parsing of it,
not much.
But we have the email address, when it
was sent cleaned up, and the subject all
cleaned up, and then we insert or ignore
into the Messages that we have the id
which, this is not an autoincrement
ID because these messages sort of have
a natural ID as they come from the server.
So this is message 3.
It will always be message 3.
And if we go to message 12 to 13,
well, this is going to be message 12.
So we don't really need an autoincrement.
So you'll note that this is
not an autoincrement field.
We just use the message position
that we just retrieved.
Got the email, sent_at, subject, header,
and body, and then we insert it.
So this is something that you might find.
Normally through these loops,
I'm committing all the time,
but this is a trick.
So many is how many we're doing, and
what I'm saying here is if many
divided by 50, the remainder is zero.
That's what this is saying.
Divided by 50, take the remainder.
That means every 50th record,
we're going to do a commit.
So that'll speed this process up.
It'll make it so
your hard drive won't heat up as much.
So we're not committing every single time.
We're going to retrieve 50 records.
Now, here's the thing that you can change.
Then, it waits a second and sleeps.
But we're like,
we'll just comment that out.
We're not going to wait it out.
Let's hope we don't crash
the Internet by doing this.
And then what we're going to do, it's still
going to commit every 50th record.
But it's going to go a lot faster now.
And then we commit at very end and
then we close our connection.
And so that's the basic loop
that we're running.
And so, let's hope I didn't introduce
any syntax errors with my editing.
We'll find out soon enough.
So now,
let me retrieve this python gmane.py.
We're going to start at message 7 and
let me get ten messages and
see how fast it goes.
Zoom.
So you see how much it goes.
It goes much faster.
So, if you're going to try to
download a bunch of stuff,
you probably want to turn
off that error message, right?
So, I'll do ten more.
It's pretty fast.
A lot faster.
Okay, so now what I'm going to do
is get out of there, ls -l.
And so you see the content, .sqlite.
I'm going to remove it,
delete it, content.sqlite.
It'd be del on Windows.
And then I'm going to rename it.
It would be be ren on Windows,
move bob.sqlite to content.sqlite.
So if I do an ls -l now,
the content.sqlite is
this giant half a gigabyte of stuff
that I downloaded and unzipped.
So now what happens is because gmane.py,
let's take a look at that,
gmane.py, the first thing it does here,
select max id from Messages,
it's going to go to the end and
it's going to start at the very end.
So I've got a half a gig and
I will say, python gmane.py,
so now it's got a half a gig of stuff.
And it says oh, the highest message is 52450.
Let me go get 10 more.
So you'll see it starts there and
just keeps on going.
So you would download this, and you
don't have to download the first 50,000.
Let's go like 30 more, let's keep on going.
And so you'll be doing this.
And you literally,
you can say, Again, I warn you.
Don't do this if you have
an expensive network connection or
a slow network connection.
Or if you're at a workplace where they're
like how come you just downloaded
a gigabyte of API stuff.
But I have done this where
I just go the next 10,000.
Usually what happens is my
computer goes to sleep before, but
it will, if it stays up it
will go get 10,000 messages.
And here you could type control-C and we're
going to actually try and catch this.
Now the interesting thing is it's
only committing every 50 messages.
So I'm not going to get probably
many of this unless I wait for 50.
Something you could do
is go put a commit in,
actually it’s going to
commit at the very end.
So it’s going to try and
except, do a break, and I'll hit control-C,
interrupted by the user.
So let's take a look at
where that happened there.
So it was doing something.
Program interrupted by user.
Yeah, because it was in the middle of a,
if it wasn't  in the middle of reading
a document it wouldn't have worked,
and reading a webpage it wouldn't work,
but it caught this keyboard interrupt.
And then it did a break, and
then it means that it's exiting.
And then I commit at the very end
and I select
So I got actually this very last guy,
52608 made it because it popped out.
Now if I hit the control-C the wrong way,
it might have caught it somewhere else in
the code that wasn't in
the middle of a try and
except block and
then I would have lost up to the last 50.
But you could tweak these numbers and
if you're writing your own code,
you would probably put commits elsewhere
and you might put all this other stuff
inside of a try-catch block so you could
catch failures or aborts or whatever.
I don't know but you get the concept that
you don't have to commit every single
record like I've done on
some of the other things.
It's safe to commit to every record, but
then your hard drive, especially if you
turn off this time sleep one, your hard
drive gets a little heated up, it's like
it's committing, committing, committing.
It's like [SOUND] and then commit.
[SOUND] and then commit.
So at the end of the day,
that is what we see.
And we can just take a quick
look at the data that's in there
a couple of different ways.
Let me just use SQLite Browser and
I'm going to open a database and
I'm going to go to content.sqlite and
open it.
Now expect that your computer
is going to spin for a while.
It is, when I go and
try to map the messages,
see that computer's kind of sleeping.
And if you don't, this is a fast computer.
You might take a while.
And so if you scroll down and
you see, okay, 52608,
that is the message we've got here, 52608.
That waas the last message we loaded so
we actually made it to the database.
So that's one way for you to look at it,
and if you look at these record, you see
we've got the email address, the sent at,
the subject, the header, and the body.
And so there we go. We parse that and
if we start that back up, away we go.
Okay?
So up next we're going to
take this content.sqlite and
then we're going to make it
in a much more compressed
form in much more efficient form
using the gmodel.py application.